SNPP Z2: 2016-based subnational population projections, clinical commissioning groups in England, mid-2016 to mid-2041


Contents

These three files contain projected resident population, by single year of age, for clinical commissioning groups, for every year of the projection.


Release:			2016-based subnational population projections

Publication date:		24 May 2018

Contact email:		pop.info@ons.gov.uk

Contact tel.:		+44 (0)1329 444661

Release URL: 		https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationprojections/bulletins/nationalpopulationprojections/2016basedstatisticalbulletin


Content:			Population 

Coverage:		Clinical commissioning groups in England

Year(s):			All individual years mid-2016 to mid-2041

Age:			Single years of age

Figures in:		Units (rounded to three decimal places)

		
Files:	2016 SNPP CCG pop males.csv
	2016 SNPP CCG pop females.csv
	2016 SNPP CCG pop persons.csv

Notes
1.  Long-term subnational population projections are an indication of the future trends in population by age and sex over the next 25 years. They are trend-based projections, which means assumptions for future levels of births, deaths and migration are based on observed levels over the previous 5 years. They show what the population will be if recent trends continue.
2.  The projected resident population of an area includes all people who usually live there, whatever their nationality.  People moving into or out of the country are only included in the resident population if their total stay in that area is for 12 months or more, thus visitors and short-term migrants are not included. Armed forces stationed abroad are not included, but armed forces stationed within an area are included. Students are taken to be resident at their term-time address.
3.  The projections generally do not take into account any policy changes that have not yet occurred, nor those that have not yet had an impact on observed trends. They are constrained at the national level to the 2016-based national population projections published on 26 October 2017.
4.  Projections for clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) are not produced directly. Instead they are based on the projections created for local authorities.
 - In many cases CCG areas share boundaries with local authorities or aggregations of local authorities, in which case projections for these areas are calculated by replicating or aggregating the appropriate local authority projections.
 - Where areas do not share boundaries, CCG projections are derived from proportions based on CCG/local authority level splits using Lower Layer Super Output (LSOA) level estimates by age and sex for the base year. 
 - The derived proportions are multiplied by the projected local authority figures. The respective CCG parts are then aggregated to the CCG level.  
However, for the 2016-based projections there is a complication. As noted, the projections are based on the revised mid-2016 population estimates published in March 2018. However, revised mid-2016 LSOA and CCG estimates are not yet available, meaning the apportionment process has been based on the (unrevised) mid-2016 Lower Super Output Area Mid-Year Population Estimates published in October 2017.
Because the 2016 values in the CCG projections are created by aggregation and/or apportionment of the local authority projections, they will differ from those in the last set of Clinical Commissioning Group Mid-Year Population Estimates, also published in October 2017. In addition, they are also liable to differ from the revised official mid-2016 CCG estimates when they are published later in 2018.
5.  These data are based on administrative geographic boundaries in place on the reference date of 30 June 2016.
6.  Further advice on the appropriate use of these data can be obtained by emailing our Stakeholder Engagement Team (pop.info@ons.gov.uk) or telephoning +44 (0)1329 444661.

Because of rounding, figures may not sum.

Terms and Conditions
1.  You may re-use this document/publication (not including logos) free of charge in any format or medium, under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0. To view this licence visit: Open Government Licence; or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 4DU; or email:  psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk
2.  Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned.
3.  This document/publication is also available on our website.
4.  National Statistics are produced to high professional standards as set out in the Code of Practice for Official Statistics. They are produced free of political influence.
5.  Users reproducing ONS content without adaptation should include a source accreditation to ONS: Office for National Statistics licensed under the Open Government Licence v.3.0. Users reproducing ONS content which is adapted should include a source accreditation to ONS: Adapted from data from the Office for National Statistics licensed under the Open Government Licence v.3.0. 
6.  The Information is licensed 'as is' and the information provider excludes all representations, warranties, obligations and liabilities in relation to the Information to the maximum extent permitted by law. The Information Provider does not guarantee the continued supply of the information. 

Source: Office for National Statistics   © Crown copyright 2018

Data supplier:
Population Projections Unit
Population Statistics Division
Office for National Statistics
Segensworth Road
FAREHAM
PO15 5RR

email:	pop.info@ons.gov.uk
tel:	+44 (0)1329 444661

Date published: 24 May 2018